These days, many children have difficulty paying attention and concentrating in their classes at school.
What are the reasons for this? How can it be dealt with?

29.09.2023

Modern life tends to be quick and hectic full of unrelated events. In such circumstances it can be fairly hard to concentrate on anything, even for adults. Hence, it is no surprise that children struggle to be attentive at school having problems with concentration. What exactly causes it and how the lack of concentration of the children can be tackled?

Recent years the way people handle the information underwent a drastic change. For example, with the development of the internet nearly all the knowledge can be accessed by anyone at any time. Modern education system struggles to adapt to this alteration. Lessons at school can be seemed as dull and bland with lack of events able to attract an attention of children. Lifestyle has changed as well as children but the way knowledge is conveyed at schools remain pretty much the same. That is surely one of the major causes of the children concentration problem. Children being overwhelmed by the information they consume is another cause. Children enjoy seeing new, but sometimes this desire proves to be harmful with the unconsciousness and unrestricted consumption of the content. In this situation human brain naturally learns to have superficial interest rather than conduct thorough investigation of their surroundings, which is inappropriate for school education.

It is important that action is taken to combat issues with children's attention. The government should introduce new study approaches to the educational system. Innovative techniques like making the lessons shorter or more diverse should help inattentive children maintain their interest to the subject. Parents should also take their part fighting against lack of children' attention. They should teach their children to enjoy activities that require them to pay attention and concentrate. It can be reading or sports, anything that is meant to be taken to some extent seriously in order to be interesting.

To conclude, the way information is treated has changed a lot resulting in children' lack of attention at schools. However, the problem can be tackled by the adaptation of the educational system to the children alterated mentality. Besides that, parents can improve the situation by being more attentive to their children's leisure.
